A Public Statement Regarding Ubiquitous Encryption on the XMPP Network

Date: 2013-10-27
Version: 0.3

We, as operators of public services and developers of software
programs that use the XMPP standard for instant messaging and
real-time communication, commit to establishing ubiquitous encryption
over our network on May 19, 2014.

Jabber/XMPP technologies were first released on January 4, 1999, by
Jeremie Miller. Since then, encryption using Secure Sockets Layer
(SSL) and Transport Layer Security (TLS) has been optional on the
Jabber/XMPP network. Out of respect for the users of our services 
and software, we believe it is time to make such encryption mandatory.

Therefore we commit to the following policies, consistent with the
IETF Internet-Draft "Use of Transport Layer Security in XMPP" 
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-saintandre-xmpp-tls/>:

o support the STARTTLS method in XMPP as specified in RFC 6120, 
  including mandatory-to-implement cipher suites and certificate 
  validation consistent with RFC 6125

o require the use of TLS for both client-to-server and 
  server-to-server connections

o prefer the latest version of TLS (TLS 1.2)

o disable support for the older and less secure SSL standard
  (SSLv2 and SSLv3)

o provide configuration options to require TLS for 
  client-to-server and server-to-server connections

o provide configuration options to require TLS cipher suites
  that enable forward secrecy

o deploy certificates issued by well-known and widely-deployed 
  certification authorities (CAs)

o if authenticated encryption is not available for server-to-server
  connections, fall back to opportunistic encryption with identity
  verification using Server Dialback

o provide user or administrative interfaces showing:
  o if a given client-to-server or server-to-server connection 
    is encrypted, authenticated, or both
  o the version of TLS and the cipher suite in use
  o details about a server's certificate
  o a warning about any changes to a server's certificate

The schedule we agree to is:

January 4, 2014 - first test day requiring encryption

February 22, 2014 - second test day

March 22, 2014 - third test day

April 19, 2014 - fourth test day

May 19, 2014 - permanent upgrade to encrypted network, coinciding
with Open Discussion Day <http://opendiscussionday.org/>

This commitment to encrypted connections is only the first step 
toward more secure communication using XMPP, and does not obviate 
the need for technologies supporting end-to-end encryption (such as 
Off-the-Record Messaging or OTR), strong authentication, channel
binding, secure DNS, server identity checking, and secure service 
delegation. Although we have worked to implement and deploy such 
technologies and will continue to do so, we believe that encrypting 
the traffic on the XMPP network is a necessary precondition to 
offering further security improvements.

Signed,

Peter Saint-Andre, operator of jabber.org and author of XMPP RFCs
Jeremie Miller, inventor of Jabber
Simon Tennant, Founder and CEO of buddycloud Ltd.
Andreas Kuckartz, W3C Federated Social Web Community Group

